some of the first gold chains date back
to the ancient cultures of Iraq and
Greece they were symbols of wealth
royalty and the divine luckily for us
duel is now make these personal
treasures more affordable and more
durable than ever in this factory all
that glitters is gold pure gold is
fairly soft and bright yellow so it's
common to create an alloy to strengthen
it and alter its color copper lends a
reddish hue and brass helps the alloy
melt more quickly than golden copper
wood alone depending on the ratio adding
these metals produces 14 or 18 carat
gold the mix is melted in a crucible at
more than a thousand degrees Celsius
just three of these scoops are enough to
make about 5000 14-karat gold chains
the molten alloy is poured into a
casting machine water calls the metal to
around 370 degrees Celsius solidifying
it the metal passes through a round die
which shapes it into a golden rod that's
nearly 2 meters long after the rod is
cut in half it's passed through what's
known as a breakdown mill the machinery
shapes the rod from circular
to square so it will be easier to
stretch the next stop is called a tandem
mill it has 12 rollers that stretch the
rod until it's as thin as a piece of
spaghetti as it emerges rollers shape
the rod into a coil that's 24 metres
long the coiled metal is softened in an
oven
then what's now a wire is uncoiled and
continues to stretch as it's passed
through a dye lined with industrial
diamonds to prevent overheating the
machine sprays lubricant
to cool the wire while reducing it to
the width of a human hair its final size
the wire then winds into a spool almost
three kilometers long next 32 of the
spools are unwound and the wires are run
through another oven which softens them
further just in case you're thinking
working here is a golden opportunity you
should know that security is very tight
employees must pass through metal
detectors before going home and wearing
jewellery to work is strictly forbidden
this machine makes what's called cable
chain it passes wire through a link and
closes it to make another link the
machine makes 600 links per minute here
a random quality check is being carried
out this machine makes a venetian-style
chain the wire passes through a channel
where mechanical jaws bend it over a die
to make a link with the procedure
to make what's called a spider style
this machine passes a wire through up to
five loops before closing the link
for a Figaro style chain this machine
makes three short links before a
mechanical arm moves the chain to
another area to add one longer link the
arm then moves it back to add three more
short links the simplest style is known
as a rope chain to make it
this machine threads a wire through then
closes it to make another loop the
finished chains are coated with a
lubricating powder that prevents the
links from sticking to each other during
the next step when the chains are heated
to 815 degrees Celsius
this activates a soldering agent which
was added to the metals earlier it fuses
the ends of the links to each other
this machine welds a link to a clasp on
the chain a tag indicating the gold
quality goes onto the clasp finally the
chains go through for chemical baths
which clean them thoroughly then they're
plated with a layer of 14 or 18 karat
gold which creates a more vibrant finish
after one last quality check these
chains are ready to dazzle their way to
a neckline may you